Which technology is trending now?

Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a trending technology that takes first place in the list of top 10 latest technologies in computer science of 2021. 
AI technology involves machine intelligence, which is as smart and intelligent as the human brain and reacts like humans. The intriguing discoveries of AI 
seem unfanthomable. The new developments, discoveries, and inventions seem to have no end. Where will we be in the next 10 years? Will Artificial Intelligence take over?

AI applications include advanced web search engines (e.g., Google), recommendation systems (used by YouTube, Amazon and Netflix), understanding human speech 
(such as Siri and Alexa), self-driving cars (e.g., Tesla), automated decision-making and competing at the highest level in strategic game systems (such as chess and Go).
As machines become increasingly capable, tasks considered to require "intelligence" are often removed from the definition of AI, a phenomenon known as the AI effect.
For instance, optical character recognition is frequently excluded from things considered to be AI, having become a routine technology.

In general, AI systems work by ingesting large amounts of labeled training data, analyzing the data for correlations and patterns, and using these patterns to 
make predictions about future states. In this way, a chatbot that is fed examples of text chats can learn to produce lifelike exchanges with people, or an image 
recognition tool can learn to identify and describe objects in images by reviewing millions of examples.

The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include reasoning, 
knowledge representation, planning, learning, natural language processing, perception, and the ability to move and manipulate objects.[c] General intelligence 
(the ability to solve an arbitrary problem) is among the field's long-term goals.[12] To solve these problems, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range 
of problem-solving techniques – including search and mathematical optimization, formal logic, artificial neural networks, and methods based on statistics, probability 
and economics. AI also draws upon computer science, psychology, linguistics, philosophy, and many other fields.

Moreover, Artificial Intelligence technology is everywhere, from text mining, web mining, healthcare, banking, entertainment, self-driving cars, and smartphones to homes. 
These are the reasons that it remains at the top position in the list of the trending technologies of 2021.

As technology advances, previous benchmarks that defined artificial intelligence become outdated. For example, machines that calculate basic functions or recognize text 
through optical character recognition are no longer considered to embody artificial intelligence, since this function is now taken for granted as an inherent computer 
function. AI is continuously evolving to benefit many different industries. Machines are wired using a cross-disciplinary approach based on mathematics, computer science,
linguistics, psychology, and more. 

Since its beginning, artificial intelligence has come under scrutiny from scientists and the public alike. One common theme is the idea
that machines will become so highly developed that humans will not be able to keep up and they will take off on their own, redesigning themselves at an exponential rate.

AI makes our life way more straightforward than in ancient times. AI devices perceive their environment and take actions such that the chances of successfully achieving their target are maximized.
Purely intelligent creatures, whether people or machines are bad for humanity. Robots are not the primary concern; instead, misaligned intelligence is the main concern as it requires no human assistance but only an internet connection.
As long as AI supports human survival, it is good. The types of AI we have, including war machines, will primarily be dictated by profit for the companies that make them. Instead, it should be used to eradicate global problems like poverty, malnutrition, and so on.
But the day it goes against humans, the complete homo-sapiens species would be under threat of extinction. Hence it is vital to put a stop to the expansion of AI at some point.

